Hi, I'm Michael Jurewitz,
the Application Frameworks and
Developer Tools Evangelist at Apple,
and welcome to Working with Core Data.
Today,
we're going to focus on showing you
how you can integrate this powerful
technology into your application to
help simplify your development and
optimize how you work with data.
We're going to focus on the best
practices around structuring your data,
fetching that data efficiently,
and show you how Core Data integrates
directly with UIKit.
So let's get started.
[Transcript missing]
So now, why would you use
Core Data in the first place?
Well, again,
it comes all back to efficiency.
And it's efficiency in
terms of memory usage,
being able to reduce the amount of memory
that you consume in your application
so that you're not having to load in
your entire data set from the moment
you start using your application.
It's efficiency in terms
of writing less code.
Core Data is really going to help you
get some great savings on that front,
and we'll take a look
at that in a moment.
And it's also efficiency in terms
of integrating directly with UIKit.
So let's go ahead and take
a look at an example here.
In this case,
we created a sample application
that did things with SQLite in sort
of the usual way that we see third
parties working with SQLite directly.
And we pitted this against the exact
same application using Core Data.
So let's go ahead and take a
look first at memory usage.
So memory usage on iPhone,
we're loading in 10,000 records
from this sample application.
So now our basic SQLite application
took around 1,800 kilobytes
to load in all this data.
So fairly sizable.
If we take a look at the
Core Data application,
it also took 1800 bytes.
Now in this case,
this makes sense because you're still
loading the exact same amount of data.
So we see these things
are on equal footing.
But by simply turning on one
small feature in Core Data,
a simple thing we call batching,
we're able to shave this down to
just 900 kilobytes on a fresh launch.
That's a lot of savings.
Now let's take a look at the
actual speed of this application,
in this case, the launch time.
So if we take a look at
the SQLite application,
we see that it takes roughly five
seconds to go grab all our data,
query it from the database, populate it,
and then present it.
By using Core Data,
we're able to do this in
three and a half seconds,
roughly 30% faster than
the SQLite implementation.
And again, by using batching,
we're able to shave
this down to one second,
or roughly 80% faster.
Those are huge savings.
Those are exactly the kinds of
things that you want to see in your
application so that you can get
started ultra-fast for your user.
Now let's take a look
at the lines of code,
right?
Because ultimately,
it's all about maintainability
in your project.
And you want to make sure that
you're able to just maintain
the code that you care about.
So SQLite, doing this basic kind of work,
took us roughly 570 lines of code.
That's a lot to work with.
Now for Core Data,
it was 320 lines of code, almost half.
And all those great benefits we saw
from using batching in Core Data,
well, that took 321 lines of code.
So as you can see,
really straightforward,
lots of great savings.
So let's go ahead and dive into the
Core Data architecture and make sure
that you understand the basic building
blocks of working with Core Data.
So the whole point as we go through
and do this work is that we want you
to be able to think about objects
and avoid database grunt work.
We want you to think about these objects
and how they're connected to each other
and the different behaviors that they
have as they interact with each other.
Now, these individual data objects
that you find in your application
are represented by a class in
Core Data called NSManagedObject.
And so we refer to your data
objects as managed objects.
Now, each instance of one of these
objects represents a row
of data in your database.
And it encapsulates everything
about that particular object.
So it's your data, the relationships,
all the different things
it might be connected to.
And these also provide really
powerful capabilities like
validation and error checking.
So that you can make sure
that as a user actually inputs
data into your application,
that you've always got a consistent
view of your data and that it's valid.
Now,
all of these managed objects live inside
what's called a managed object context.
This is represented by the NS managed
object context in Core Data.
And you can basically think of this as
Core Data's scratch pad for your objects.
Now, here we track all the changes
that get made to the individual
model properties in your objects.
And the way to think about the managed
object context is that it handles
all of the verbs about your data.
So, the inserts, the fetches, saves,
and deletes.
So, basically creating data,
querying data, etc.
The managed object context is going to
be the central point that you work with
when you're doing all of these things.
So,
now let's take a look at data storage.
Now, Core Data stores its data using
a class called the NS Persistent
Store and a couple other friends
that help out along the way.
Now,
all of this data is stored in SQLite.
So, fundamentally,
the storage layer is the same
between SQLite and Core Data.
Core Data sits on top of
this layer and handles all of
these interactions for you,
though,
so you never actually have to worry
about talking to the database directly.
Now,
the schema and the data that we actually
store in this file is considered private.
Core Data is stored in the database.
So, you don't have to worry about
talking to the database directly.
Now,
the schema and the data that we actually
store in this file is considered private.
Core Data is stored in the database.
So, you don't have to worry about
talking to the database directly.
data is storing this in a special format
that it expects to be able to read.
So don't go in there and try to
manually manipulate this data.
Now, as we take a look at
actually modeling your data,
Core Data does this through a class
called the NSManagedObjectModel.
Now, this is something that you'll
actually graphically design in Xcode,
and so you can lay out all of
your different objects and how
they're connected to each other.
And the ManagedObjectModel basically
describes all of these objects,
or what we call entities,
and how they're related to each other.
You also get a chance to define basic
behaviors with this object graph.
So, how should things be deleted,
for example?
Should you cascade a delete?
Should you nullify back references,
etc.? And we actually use all this
information in your ManagedObjectModel
to create that store file.
Now, these entities I talked about are
represented by NSEntityDescription.
And in this case,
they're basically just the
blueprints for your managed objects.
They describe the different
data that you want to store.
So is it a string?
Is it a data?
Is it a date, et cetera?
And also the different relationships
that these objects have to each other.
Okay, so let's bring all this
information together.
So we've got our managed object model.
We've got our managed object context.
And of course, living in that,
we have our different managed objects.
And then we have our actual store file.
And now sitting at the
center of all of this is the
NS Persistence Store Coordinator.
And its job is to mediate the interaction
between all of these different layers.
Now, if you're coming to Core Data for
the first time and you've been doing
database programming in the past,
let me do a little mapping for you that
might have this make a little more sense.
So in this case,
the managed object model,
you can think of as basically
your database schema.
The NS Persistence Store Coordinator you
can think of as basically
your database connection.
It's how you're going to get
at all your individual data.
The Managed Object Context with all
of the individual managed objects is
basically just your raw data as objects.
Now finally, there's one more class
that gets used in this mix,
and that's the NSFetchRequest.
And we're going to talk a whole
lot about this a little bit later.
But the basic way to think
about the fetch request is that
it's your SELECT FROM clause.
Okay, so we've laid the groundwork for
how all these things work together.
Now let's jump into the individual
sections that I mentioned to you earlier.
So let's start off here and take
a look at structuring your data.
Now first, a simple word of warning.
This is the most important
step in your development,
is figuring out exactly how you want
all of this data to be structured,
how it should be related to each other,
and the different behaviors and ways that
you're going to be querying that data.
So if anything,
this is the stage where you want
to take the time to iterate.
Design that model for the first time,
see how it works,
but make changes as you find
different performance bottlenecks.
The last thing you want to do is
start off with a rocky foundation
that's going to set you up for
problems on into the future.
Now as always,
Core Data is going to make it easy for
you to correct some of these issues,
but again,
spend the time here to do that iteration.
So we're going to cover a couple rules
of thumb about designing your data.
And ultimately,
they come down to these four things.
So first, you need to find a balance
between speed and space.
Next, you need to make sure that you're
always designing with the UI in mind.
Now, this might seem a little strange
if you've come from sort of a
pure database background where
you've got this idea of a perfect
organization of data in your head.
And while, yes, that's true, ultimately,
the way that you choose to present
this data is going to have some
effect on how you store it,
mostly because of performance.
Next, a simple statement to
avoid entity inheritance.
And I'll tell you about
that in just a moment.
And finally,
don't put blobs in the database.
These are binary large objects.
There are better ways to work with these.
So let's go ahead and jump in and
talk about this speed versus space.
So in this case,
this is all about structuring your data.
And ultimately,
it's a push and pull between two
different ends of the spectrum,
between normalization
and denormalization.
Now, these are database terms that
basically have to do with
how you structure your data.
So normalization is the idea of
taking the different data that you
want to work with and finding a
perfectly factored representation
of it so that you completely
eliminate any repetition of data.
Now, this is space efficient because
you've eliminated that repetition.
So instead of having some table where
you repeat the artist name or the
album name on a song multiple times,
you simply have one canonical reference
to that artist name or that album name.
Now, denormalization, in contrast,
is what you do after you've
normalized your model.
And it's the willful reintroduction
of some repetition of data.
And usually, this is the idea that you
want to take something.
You want to take some data
and make it more local,
basically make it easier
for you to get at,
possibly because you
display it often in your UI.
So the idea here is to help give
you faster access to this data.
But again, if you denormalize too much,
then it's going to be
very space inefficient.
You're going to have lots of
repetition of data to deal with.
So ultimately, you're always going to
be in this push and pull,
in this balance between these two poles.
And that's OK.
So if we take a look at what
normalization is in the first place,
we're going to see that it's
going to be a lot more efficient.
So if we take a look at what
normalization is in the first place,
let's take a look at a song.
So as you sit down to design
a database for storing songs,
you begin to write down all the
different things you want to store.
So an artist, a title, an album, genre,
et cetera.
Now,
when you go and you take this and you
want to actually normalize this model,
you might end up with something
that looks a little more like this.
In this case,
you see we still have a song entity.
But now we have distinct artist, album,
lyrics, and even songs.
So we've got song data stored off here.
Now, the song still has a title.
In this case, it also still has a genre.
We could actually probably take
that genre and factor that out,
too.
And we see now that all these different
objects have relationships to each other.
So for example, an artist has a too-many
relationship to a song.
So an artist can have many songs.
But a song has got a
one-to-one relationship with,
say, an album, for example.
Usually, it's only on a single album.
Now after you've looked at this and
you've factored out all of your data
and you begin writing your application,
you might find different bottlenecks
that you want to try to overcome
by changing your model slightly.
So say, for example,
we had an application where
the whole focus was on showing
the duration of songs and also
showing the lyrics for songs,
or at least showing some indication
that a song has lyric text
that we might want to look at.
In this case,
if we introduce some denormalization,
we might end up with something like this.
In this case, you see we've added a has
lyrics tag back to our song,
and we've also moved this length from
the song data back into our song entity.
In this case,
that way we can actually take
a look at what the total length
of our song was and be able to
quickly display that in our object,
in our UI.
Okay,
so when it comes to speed versus space,
it's all about finding that balance.
It's all about normalizing our model
first and finding the best organization
of data that's going to fit our needs.
And then it's all about
actually using that model and
discovering those bottlenecks.
From there, you want to make sure that
you're carefully denormalizing.
Because remember,
any duplication of information
that you've got in that model is
going to require extra maintenance.
It's now another place, you know,
three different places that you're
going to have to potentially
change this information,
depending on how many
times you duplicate it.
All right, so let's look at the idea of
remembering the UI here or
designing with the UI in mind.
So if we started with an application
called Core Data Recipes in this case,
then we might have something
that looks like this.
We've got a table view where we're
listing out all the different recipes.
We see we've got a title
and a description for them,
roughly how long they take to prepare.
As we select an individual table row,
you'll notice that we get
the detail on a recipe.
In this case, we get a thumbnail,
which is kind of a picture of the recipe.
We see the different
categories that it's in.
So in this case, it's a dessert,
and we see the different
ingredients that we might use.
And clicking on that
little thumbnail picture,
we actually get a nice,
detailed picture of
our individual recipe.
Now,
if we were designing this application,
we might end up with a data model
that looks something like this.
In this case, you see we've got a recipe,
and a recipe has got a
title and a description,
and it's also got relationships to
all these other different objects.
So we see, for example,
a relationship to a recipe picture.
In this case, we call it a large picture.
We've got a relationship to ingredients,
to categories,
to the different steps that we want to
use in our recipe to actually create it.
Now, this is interesting and this
would work for this application,
but let's sort of turn this on its head.
Now, what if instead you wanted to
create an application that was
all about the pictures of food,
it was all about the photos.
And so, you were really focused on
how that food was presented,
what the chef had actually
put on that plate.
And you wanted to categorize these things
based on how the pictures were styled,
for example.
Michael Jurewitz
Well, you might end up with a data model
that looks a little more like this.
Notice that now we have this thing called
a recipe picture that's sort of the
central hub of what we're doing here.
And we're displaying the picture
name and maybe the date that
we actually took the picture.
And maybe the actual name of the recipe
because we want to display that as well.
But you'll notice now that this
recipe picture is what's related
to the different category.
And we still have, ultimately,
a recipe with its different
ingredients and its different steps.
But it's interesting to see how,
depending on the whole goal of
the application and how we want
to present that information,
our data model can change.
And that's okay.
You should feel just fine
if you find yourself making
changes that reflect the UI.
So really the questions that you
want to ask yourself are really
what's the focus of this application?
How is the user going to actually
flow through your application?
So at each stage,
say as they go through that
navigation style interface,
what's the data that
you need at each point?
The other thing to think about
is what additional information
might interest the user,
because those are things that
you're likely to want to display
in your UI in the future.
And so you might want to make sure
that that data is easy to get at
in how you design it in your model.
And again, it's okay for your model
to evolve at this point.
This is exactly what you want to do.
You want to iterate and you
want to work with things.
Now, if you go ahead and you end up
shipping something and you want
to make some changes in the end,
Core Data does have some
powerful migration support
to help make that easier.
[Transcript missing]
So if you've got small objects,
things that are about a kilobyte
in size or a couple kilobytes,
say for example, a archived UI color,
this is totally okay to
store in the database.
It's very small.
It shouldn't have that big of an impact
when you go to actually query for the
things that it might be related to.
So this is okay.
Feel free to put this in there.
Now, once you start getting up
to about 100 kilobytes,
and certainly any more than that,
you start hitting a gray area where
it's probably still okay for you to
store these things in the database,
but you need to adopt some very
specific behaviors to make it efficient.
Let's say, for example, this was, again,
a picture of one of our recipes.
Now, if for whatever reason,
as we go querying for all of our recipes,
we ever had a situation where
we didn't need this picture,
and if we had stored that
picture in our actual recipe,
then we'd end up in a situation
where we were eating hundreds of
kilobytes of memory simply as part
of that query for data that we
ultimately would never actually need.
And so, you want to make sure that you
model these at the opposite end
of a one-to-one relationship,
so that your recipe, for example,
can go ask for its thumbnail data,
as opposed to always having
to carry it around with it.
Now, once you're up into the
megabytes in terms of size,
these need to be stored on disk,
and there's just no two ways about it.
Store these on disk,
put them in your documents directory,
for example, and simply store a URL or a
file path to where they are,
and then load them in.
Now,
the good part about doing it this way
is that then you can actually go and use
UI images in it with contents of file,
for example, if you've got an image
that you're trying to load.
Now, this is good because UI image
has got a bunch of smarts that'll
basically help it decide how
it wants to load in that image.
If it's large enough,
it'll try to memory map it in.
This will help a lot in terms of speed
and also in terms of memory savings.
So if we take a look at an example,
again, here's our recipe,
and we've got this small picture.
We still have a relationship
to a large picture,
but again, we're carrying around that
thumbnail with us every time,
and that's just really inefficient.
So what we want to do is take this
data and factor it off like this.
So you see we've got our small
picture now is stored out on
that recipe picture entity.
So we're storing our thumbnail out there.
And when we have to get
to the large picture,
the actual detail,
we've got this data file path,
and we'll use that to
load the image off disk.
So again, remember,
file systems provide fast,
efficient access to large files.
It's ultimately what
they were designed for.
Now, by doing this,
you avoid all sorts of unneeded faulting
and help reduce the duplication of data
and also the wasting of data as you pull
in your objects as part of your fetches.
Now, it's not necessarily the most
efficient thing for you to store lots
of smaller resources off on disk.
So again, this is why those are a
little more safe for you to
actually store in the database.
But again,
use a one-to-one relationship and feel
free to benchmark either case to find the
one that's going to work best for you.
All right,
so that was structuring your data.
Now let's hop into fetching efficiently.
So fetching your data,
it's all about using the NSFetchRequest.
This is going to be how you
access all that saved data.
Now, NSFetchRequest is really
flexible and really powerful,
and it's really simple to use.
All you have to do is
tell us what to fetch,
where you want it fetched from,
and how you want it to
be brought back to you,
basically.
So in this case,
if we wanted to fetch all the
albums beginning with B and
sort them alphabetically,
we'd tell our FetchRequest, "Hey,
we want you to go talk to the album
entity." We'd set a predicate that said,
"Hey, find them where the title is
like B*," or we could say,
"starts with B." And for the sorting,
we simply wanted to come back with
it being alphabetical by name.
Now again, if you've come from a
database background,
the way to think about this is that
this is sort of your select from clause.
And the predicate is your where clause.
This is where you're specifying all
the different conditions that have
to be met to bring back this data.
and the sorting here is basically
just your order by clause.
So creating a fetch
request is as easy as one,
two, three.
The first thing you do is to set the
actual entity that you want to fetch.
In this case we create
an NSEntity description,
we specify the name that we want
to use and also the managed object
context that we want to work with.
Next,
we simply alloc and init a fetch request.
And then we set the album in
as the entity to be fetched
with that fetch request.
Now, if we've got a predicate
that we want to set,
in this case,
these are conditions that need to be
met in order to bring back any objects,
we can do that.
In this case, we're seeing if the release
year matches the current year.
And finally,
you just need to do the actual fetch.
Now, the first thing that you
always need to do is declare an
NSError and simply set that to nil.
Now, you do that because you're later
going to pass this error into
the execute fetch request method.
Now, if for whatever reason anything
goes wrong during this fetch,
Core Data is going to take
care of populating this
error information for you.
And so this is going to be the
object that you can use to figure
out what might have gone wrong.
But normally,
you would just send execute fetch
request to your managed object context.
You'd pass in the actual fetch
that you want to have done,
and you'd get back an array of results.
So there's a bunch of different
ways that you can do fetching.
And the most important thing in
your development when you're getting
started is to know your tools.
So we're going to take a look
at five different topics here.
We're going to take a look at faulting,
prefetching, batching, partial faulting,
and aggregates.
So let's just jump right in.
Now, understanding faulting is one of
the most important things as you're
getting started with Core Data.
So as you go and decide to
fetch against your database,
perhaps you might bring back albums
that we talked about earlier.
And when you do that fetch,
Core Data is going to take care
of bringing those objects back
and making sure that their row
information is populated for you.
So that when you go to
access one of these albums,
we've got all the information
there for you to be able to use.
Now, it's typical, though,
for something like albums to have
a bunch of relationships off to,
say, a bunch of song objects.
Now, it wouldn't be very efficient
if we also went out and fetched
all these song objects in,
because if you had a lot of these things,
you could really quickly
exhaust your memory,
for example.
So what Core Data does is it maintains
an understanding that these things exist,
but it waits to actually pull this
information in until you ask for it.
So if, for example,
you were to ask Album 3 for Song 3,
we'd go ahead and notice that,
we'd go to the database,
and we'd look at the data.
And we'd load that song in for you.
So that's a basic idea for how
faulting works in Core Data.
Now let's take a look at prefetching.
Prefetching is all about
getting more information back.
And this is exactly for the cases when
you know exactly what data you need.
And say if there's any data
off in relationships that you
know you're going to access and
so you want easy access to it.
Now prefetching works for relationships,
but it also works for the
attributes on those relationships.
So let's take a look.
So how do you use this?
Well, you set up your prefetch
request like you always would.
In this case, we've specified our entity,
we've specified the
managed object context,
and we've set up everything else.
Now,
the next thing you do is use this set
relationship key pass for prefetching.
And you pass in an array of key pass
that basically you want to be prefetched.
Now, these key pass represent basically
the names of relationships and
potentially the different properties
that you want to have preloaded.
So in this case,
we're fetching against our albums,
but we want these songs to go ahead
and also get fetched along with this.
Now, when you do this,
you want to just go ahead and execute
your fetch request like you always would,
and you'll get back a bunch of albums.
Now, it's important to note, though,
that along with these albums,
you'll also have any associated songs.
But herein lies the problem,
because you might have
gotten back a song,
or more than likely,
you probably got back some songs,
or perhaps you got back songs,
or you might even have
gotten back a song.
So, you want to make sure that you use
this functionality judiciously.
Be careful about how much data you
might actually be pulling back.
This is, again,
an area where something like batching,
for example,
might be able to help you out,
but also just understanding your
data and how it's related can help.
So speaking of batching,
let's take a look at that.
Now, batching lets you work
with chunks of data.
And when you think about it,
there's ultimately only so
much that you can actually
fit on the screen at one time.
Something like the iPhone, I mean,
you're going to be lucky
if you can get more than,
say, six, seven,
eight rows in a table view without
really squishing down information.
Now, batching is going to let you
save memory because what you're
going to do is only load the data
you need to display on screen.
So you're only dealing
with what's necessary.
And the best part about batching
is that it's really easy to adopt.
Remember that one line of
code that I mentioned earlier?
So, to use batching, again,
you set up your fetch request
like you always would.
And then it's this single line,
this set fetch batch size.
And then you simply pass in how
many objects you want to be fetched
as part of your initial request.
In this case, we're just asking for 10.
Now, when you actually go and
execute this fetch request,
you're going to get back
an array of results.
Now, this array is only going to
have 10 results in this case.
But there's something really
interesting going on here.
This NSArray, this results array,
still responds to the count method.
And the count that it'll give you
will be the total number of objects
that really came back from this query.
So, for example, 5,280.
But it's only going to have
10 objects actually in it.
Now, to access the rest of these objects,
all you need to do is start indexing into
the array or start iterating through it.
Whatever you need to do.
Core Data will notice this and
behind the scenes will take care
of loading this data into the
array for you to be able to use.
So, really tricky, really powerful,
and just really seamless for you to use.
It's fantastic.
So, let's take a look at
partial faulting now.
Now, partial faulting lets you
just get a slice of the data.
And this is for when you
know the data you need,
and you know that that
data is only a subset,
it's only a few things.
Now this is heavily UI influenced,
so this is exactly for the situation
where you're showing a listing of albums
and you know that you only need to show,
say, the name of the album and
maybe how many songs it has or
the name and the release date.
So let's see how you actually
work with partial faulting.
So again, you set up your fetch request
like you always would.
And then you've got this
single method to call,
the set properties to fetch.
And you pass in an NSArray of
strings for the different properties
that you want to be fetched.
Now, if you've read the
documentation carefully,
you've noticed that it actually calls
for an array of NS property descriptions.
Well, as it turns out,
you can also simply pass
in an array of strings.
So do feel free to do that.
Just make sure that your string
names you pass in exactly match
what you've got in your model.
So in this case, we see for the albums,
I'm prefetching their title
and also their release date.
After that,
we simply execute the fetch request
and you'll get back an array of results
that matches just this information.
All right,
so now let's take a look at aggregates.
So what are aggregates?
Well,
they're basically just data summaries.
Now, Core Data supports two
different kinds of aggregates.
You've got in-database
aggregates and custom aggregates.
So now, in-database aggregates really
lets you sort of calculate
to your heart's content.
Now, natively supported in
Core Data are functions like sum,
count, min, max, and average.
And these are really pretty
straightforward to use.
Now, count, among all of them,
is the most straightforward to use.
So how do you actually do a count?
Well, you set up your fetch request
like you always would.
And then,
instead of calling executeFetchRequest,
you call count for fetch request.
You pass that to your
managed object context.
And in there, of course,
you also pass in the fetch
request and the error parameter.
And now,
the managed object context will return
to you the count of objects that would
have been returned by your query.
Now, you could do a normal fetch and then
ask the array of results for its count.
That's certainly a way to do it.
But it's going to be much less
efficient if all you need is a count.
If you plan on then accessing the
different attributes on these objects,
well, then doing a fetch
request might make sense.
But if all you need is the count,
use this API.
So let's take a look at the
other in-database aggregates.
In this case, taking a sum.
So the first thing we need to
do is create an NS expression.
And this is going to define the
actual function that we want to
be evaluated against our data.
So we create this NS expression with
expression for function arguments.
And in this case, we pass in a array.
And we pass in a array of NS expressions.
Now, we've got here this
expression for key path,
duration.
In this case,
this duration key path is going
to be the attribute on our
object that we want to sum up.
The next thing we do is create
an NS expression description,
and we simply alloc init
and auto-release it.
Next, we want to set up some information
about that description.
So first, we give it a name,
in this case, total time.
Next, we want to give it the actual
expression that we want to be evaluated,
so it's that NS expression
that we created up top.
Finally, we want to tell the
expression description how
we want the data returned.
In this case,
we want the NSDecimal attribute
type because we want to get back
basically a floating point number.
Next, we want to tell our object exactly
what we want to have fetched.
So we set up the properties
that we want to fetch,
in this case, just an array that contains
our expression description.
And we pass that into our fetch request
through the set properties to fetch.
Finally,
we'll set the result type on our fetch
request to the NSDictionary result type.
This will make sure that we just get
back a single dictionary as part of
our fetch request that will contain
the name total time and the value,
which is basically the result
of running the summation.
So as we execute that and
then get back a result,
we'll get just that,
a single dictionary with a single
entry that says total time and the
amount of time that those things took.
Now, you can also do your own
custom aggregates in Core Data.
Those are a little bit
easier to work with,
so let's show you how you can do that.
So, for example,
if you wanted to fetch against
all the albums again and find
something to go ahead and calculate,
you would set up your fetch
request like you always would.
We'd go ahead and set the
result type from this fetch
to the NSDictionaryResultType,
and then set the properties that
we actually want to be fetched,
whatever that might be.
We'd then execute our fetch request,
and we'd get back an array of
dictionaries that we could simply use
key value coding to get the values from,
just value for key, for example.
And in this case,
we'd be able to then iterate through all
those results and do whatever fancy logic
we had in calculating our aggregate.
Now, this is one way to do it, but if,
for example,
you were also planning on later using
these objects for display or pulling
out some other information about them,
you might just feel free to do a
normal fetch request and then just
iterate through those results.
So you wouldn't necessarily have
to set that NSDictionaryResultType.
All right, so we looked at a bunch of
different options for fetching and
understanding key parts about how
fetching works in the first place.
So we looked at faulting,
we talked about prefetching, batching,
partial faulting, and aggregates.
So that's fetching efficiently.
Now, let's take a look at
integrating with UIKit.
So now Core Data is a technology designed
to primarily help with the back end.
You know, we're providing fast,
efficient access to your data.
We're helping you validate user input,
and we're also helping you
reduce your memory usage overall.
But Core Data goes beyond that
and can even help you when it
comes out to displaying your data.
Because remember,
now you've got all this data
that's come back from the database,
but you've got real objects
that you can work with.
And remember,
managed objects are just objects.
Sure,
they're subclasses of NSManagedObject,
but that's just a subclass of NSObject.
And Core Data makes it easy for you
to define your own custom classes
to use for these managed objects.
So if, for example,
you wanted to override accessors
to add some custom behavior,
or if you wanted to add some other sort
of business logic to your model layer,
you can do that.
Now, the other thing that you
can do is actually leverage
things like change tracking.
So, for example,
your different managed objects
can observe each other using KVO,
or you might have a controller layer
that decides that it wants to observe
some of your individual managed objects.
But you can also register
for graph level changes,
and this is knowing when all of your
objects at a high level have changed.
So, for example,
NSManagedObjectContext has
a didSave notification,
so you can know when data has
been pushed down to the database,
and you can find out
exactly what's changed.
There's also a didUpdate notification,
so you can simply find out when
any object that the context
knows about has changed.
Now,
if you go and you use that notification,
do be aware that it's something
that you'll want to turn off,
say, as you're batch importing
a whole bunch of data,
for example.
Now, when it comes to displaying data,
Core Data can also help you out as well.
So, if we look at something
like UI Table View,
it's usually pretty
straightforward to work with,
right?
You've just got a list of data,
ultimately, that you want to display.
Now,
that data might be divided into sections,
depending on what you want to show,
but that's sort of where things
begin to get complicated,
right?
So, how many sections do you have?
How many objects are in
each one of those sections?
And what are the different sections
in the first place that you can do
something like construct that index on
the right-hand side of the Table View?
Well, this is exactly something that
Core Data can help you out with.
And it does that through a class
called the NSFetchResultsController.
Now,
the NSFetchResultsController fetches,
orders, and sections your data for you,
and it really integrates
seamlessly with UI Table View.
Now, it also caches section information
for you for ultra-fast.
So, what is this caching
that I'm talking about?
Well, in order to build that
sectioning information,
basically that index that you have
on the side of the Table View,
that takes a lot of time.
I worked with someone earlier in our
tech talks who had a SQLite database
that had 10,000 different rows in it,
and they wanted to display
these in a Table View.
Now,
aside from the fact that that's a lot
of data to display in a Table View,
it also takes a lot of time to iterate
through all the different objects there,
figure out, say, what the function is,
what the first letter is of the attribute
that you want to actually display,
and then figure out then what are
the different sections that exist.
Now, you could write all that code,
but it's kind of tedious,
and it's not something that
probably you want to maintain.
So, this is something that the
FetchResultsController does for you.
Now,
working with the FetchResultsController
is really pretty simple.
You simply need to create
a FetchResultsController.
Usually, you do that in something
like your ViewController,
for example, the same thing that we'll be
talking to the Table View.
In that FetchResultsController,
you want to set the fetch request to use,
the predicate,
and then any sort descriptors,
so anything that controls how
you want that information sorted.
Next,
you want to set yourself as the delegate
for that fetch results controller.
And then you simply need to implement
the table view methods as normal.
And now, whenever you're asked for data,
you'll simply consult the fetch
results controller for the
individual data that you need.
And it'll handle all
of the loading for you.
Now, the best part about all of
this is that it's all handled
for you in the templates.
So if you go into Xcode and you select
the navigation style template and
check that use Core Data checkbox,
all of this gets set up for you.
And you can customize it
right away to your needs.
Now when you want to break this
data up into different sections,
the Fetch Results Controller also
helps you out with that.
And you do that by simply specifying
the key path on the object
you're fetching that you want
to be used as the section name.
Now the Fetch Results Controller will
go ahead and compute and persistently
store all of the cache information.
It'll update this any time it
sees any of your objects change.
It does this by observing
the managed object context.
And as you edit your objects, make saves,
etc., it'll update its cache so that you
never actually have to worry about it.
Now it's important to note
that in order to do this,
the Fetch Results Controller will load
all of your data on first start in
order to compute that section cache.
Once it's done that,
it'll never have to load
all of it ever again.
In this case, that's when it can simply
start observing your objects.
So on first launch,
be prepared to have a little bit higher
memory usage depending on how much
data you're initially shipping with.
Now it's important to note when you're
building this sectioning information
that the fetch request and the predicate
on the fetch results controller
should be treated as immutable.
So you shouldn't be trying to
alter these two different values
really at any time as you're using
the fetch results controller.
If you do that and you
have the caching turned on,
which it is by default,
the fetch results controller
is going to think that it needs
to refetch all of your data and
rebuild that entire section cache.
Now the way to avoid that is to
simply set the cache name to nil.
That'll prevent it from trying to
write this information out to disk.
It'll also prevent it from trying to
do the calculation in the first case.
Now, if you want to do something
like support a search-style
interface in your application,
generally the way to do that is to
create a second fetch results controller.
And if you set that cache name to nil,
then at that point,
you can alter that fetch request
or that predicate and continue
to refetch your data without
any sort of performance impact.
Okay,
so that was working with table views.
Now let's talk about threading.
And first,
we're going to start off with some of
the rules of the road for threading.
So at a very basic and high level,
the rules are simply practicing
safe object ownership.
This is the case for any kind of
threading that you might try to do.
Now Core Data accomplishes this
by using a policy of isolation.
And it isolates based on
the managed object context.
And so the idea is that you want to have
one managed object context per thread.
Now, this is very key because a
managed object context is going
to be talking to your database,
it's going to be managing
a whole bunch of objects,
and you don't want to end up in
race conditions between threads.
Now,
once you have one of these managed object
contexts commit its data to the database,
you'll want to do something
like post a notification to the
main thread that simply says,
hey, changes have been made,
go re-sync your view of the world.
So if we look at isolation in practice,
really for any kind of threading,
it's all about avoiding race conditions,
times where you've got multiple
threads trying to write to
the same addresses in memory.
So a couple rules here.
First, never try to pass managed
objects between threads.
Just don't do it.
There are much better
ways to go about it.
This is going to be an area that
really will only bring you lots
of tedium and probably lots of
errors in how you go about it.
So just don't do it.
Now, in general, if you want to pull some
information out of a managed object,
like a string, a date, some data,
etc., that's fine to
pass between threads.
And just the usual rules around
basic threading good practice apply.
So make sure that you properly hand this
data off from thread one to thread two.
Now, if you want to actually
work with managed objects,
the way to pass them between
threads is with object IDs.
These are unique identifiers for each
and every individual managed object.
And all you need to do is basically
just pass these IDs to your second
thread as you begin to work with them.
So let's take a look at
how to actually do this.
And we're going to start off by
taking a look at the wrong way first.
So the wrong way would be to create
our second thread and to try to simply
make a copy of our managed object
context and its associated data and
just pass it over to thread two.
Now, again, why is this the wrong way?
Well, let's take a look at... ...a
particular situation that might arise.
So let's say that we wanted to now set
one of our albums on thread two to the
title of "First Gear." But on thread one,
we wanted to set this
ultimately same album to a
title of "Cardinal Song." Well,
as we set both of those
in at the same time,
what actually happened?
Which one of those won?
We're ultimately still
talking to the same object.
I'm not sure which one
that would end up as.
Would it be some crazy
combination of the two?
Because we forgot to put in our own
threading protection around that setter?
Hard to say.
Now, what happens if we decide then
on thread two that we want to
actually go and delete the object?
And now let's say we want to
go ahead and tell both of these
managed object contexts to save.
What would happen?
I certainly don't know.
We'd probably end up with
some sort of inconsistent or
inaccurate data in our database.
And this is exactly the kind of
situation that you want to avoid.
to avoid.
So let's take a look at
doing this the right way.
So the right way on thread two is to
create that new managed object context.
And then to tell that managed
object context what object
IDs we'd like it to fetch.
Now, once you've done that and you've
gotten a bunch of objects back,
you have the opportunity to
work with them as you please.
So you can create, delete, modify,
et cetera.
And once you save that information out,
you'll be able to get a list of
the changed object IDs that you
can either pass back to thread one,
or you can simply tell thread one, hey,
go back to the database,
go refresh your view of the world,
and represent that to the user.
So again, create that second mock.
You can do that through simply talking
to the persistence store coordinator and
asking for a new managed object context.
And mocks, again, are very,
very cheap and easy to create.
So don't worry.
about any overhead on
that side of things.
All right,
so in terms of working with UIKit,
we took a look at working with
the Fetch Results Controller,
and again, it's fast, it's efficient,
it's easy to use.
And finally,
if you remember nothing else,
when you're threading,
use different mocks on different threads.
You need to make sure that you do that.
All right,
so we took a look at structuring
your data for efficient access.
We took a look at actually fetching your
data and how you can do so efficiently.
And finally, we saw how you can integrate
directly with UIKit.
As always, if you have any questions,
you can reach me at jurewitz@apple.com,
or you can consult the iPhone
Dev Center at developer.apple.com/iphone.